[Music]
dialogue gives a story color makes it
exciting and moves it forward Romeo
o wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied
Juliet what satisfaction canst thou have
tonight Romeo the exchange of thy loves
faithful vow for mine without dialogue
so what goes into writing effective
dialogue well there are social skills
making friends solving conflicts being
pleasant and polite we won't be using
any of those today instead we'll be
working on let's call them antisocial
skills if you're a writer you may
already have a few of these
the first is eavesdropping if you're
riding a bus and hear an interesting
conversation you could write it all down
of course when you write fiction you're
not describing real people you're making
up characters but sometimes the words
you overhear can give you ideas I did
not
says one person I saw you the other
replies who might be saying those words
maybe it's two kids in a class and the
boy thinks the girl pushed him maybe
it's a couple but one of them is a
vampire and the woman vampire saw the
man flirting with a zombie or maybe not
maybe the characters are a teenager and
his mother and they're supposed to be
vegetarians but the mother saw him
eating a burger so let's say you've
decided on some characters this is
antisocial skill number two start
pretending they're real what do they
like where are they from what music do
they listen to spend some time with them
if you're on a bus think about what they
might be doing if they were there to
where they talk on the phone listen to
music draw pictures sleep what we say
depends on who we are an older person
might speak differently than a younger
person someone from the South might
speak differently than someone from the
north once you know your characters
can figure out how they talk at this
stage it's helpful to use antisocial
skill number three muttering to yourself
when you speak your character's words
you can hear whether they sound natural
and fix them if necessary remember most
people are usually pretty informal when
they speak they use simple language and
contractions so do not attempt to lie to
me sounds more natural as don't try to
lie to me also keep it short people tend
to speak in short bursts not lengthy
speeches and let the dialogue do the
work ask yourself do I really need that
adverb for instance your money or your
life she said threatening Lee here
threatening Lee is redundant so you can
get rid of it but if the words and the
actions don't match an adverb can be
helpful your money or your life she said
lovingly
so to recap again first eavesdrop next
pretend imaginary people are real
finally mutter to yourself and write it
all down you already have everything you
need this is fictional dialogue or how
to hear voices in your head
you